---
{
    "title": "The Andamio CLI Roadmap",
    "author": "James",
    "date": "2024-06-21",
    "tags": []
}
---

To us, one of the most exciting things about [Project Catalyst](https://projectcatalyst.io/) - and more generally, about the Web3 ecosystem at large - is that we are always encountering new ways of collaborating with other people and other organizations.

Take our Fund 11 Catalyst proposal, [Open-Source Cardano Go Libraries + Docs + Andamio CLI](https://milestones.projectcatalyst.io/projects/1100216), for example. As planned, the Andamio Team has taken the lead on delivering this proposal. Also as planned, it's not just us - we are collaborating with [Blink Labs](https://blinklabs.io/) to build [a course about Cardano development](), and each week we host an open session where other people can learn how to contribute to ongoing work. Our development team is working closely with the developers behind [Apollo](https://github.com/Salvionied/apollo), and is making contributions to the library. Each part of our work serves another, and new connections continue to emerge between organizations and individuals. This is how more and more people will collaborate in the years to come.

In May and June, the decentralized team behind [our Fund 11 Catalyst project](https://milestones.projectcatalyst.io/projects/1100216) has had several key breakthroughs. In this blog post we will take a look at how we are organizing our work on [Andamio CLI](https://github.com/Andamio-Platform/andamio-cli). In the next post, we will investigate how our current work informs the upcoming [Cardano Go Project-Based Learning Course](https://www.andamio.io/course/gpbl2024).

## Andamio CLI Development Phases
At each stage of this project, we have been researching and developing features for the Andamio Command-Line Interface (CLI). We have now organized a roadmap for the coming year, and divided our work into three phases:
1. Convenience
2. Queries
3. Deployment

While research and development will continue in parallel for all three phases, this framework allows us to focus on what we will deliver within the scope of the [Open-Source Cardano Go Libraries + Docs + Andamio CLI](https://milestones.projectcatalyst.io/projects/1100216) project and in the years to come. Let's take a first look at each phase.

### Convenience Phase
The goal of the **Convenience Phase** is to build helpful utilities for deploying Andamio. In our work creating initial Andamio deployments, we have identified common, repeatable actions that can be run from the terminal by Andamio administrators.

At this moment, the Andamio team is responsible for all Andamio administration. When the Andamio Platform is fully live, these utilities will be available to advanced users of Andamio. Team administrators will have quick access to organizational management features, and developers will be able to extend Andamio into new use-cases.

**Example: Serializing Datum and Redeemer**

For one example, let's consider the Andamio Contribution Prototype (which we explored in the [previous blog post](/013)).

In the web application UI, Contributors can commit to projects and Reviewers can approve project completion. Administrators can add projects, but only one at a time. Even after advanced project-management features are added to the UI, there may still be cases where Andamio users want to programmatically add Projects to an Andamio Treasury.

In order to build transactions for project management, specific datums and redeemers must be serialized. `andamio-cli` makes it convenient to prepare data is exactly the ways we need it.

[To accompany this example, take a look at this video about how Andamio CLI is used in project management transactions]().

### Queries Phase
The Andamio Network is home to valuable, public data that becomes even more valuable when people have tools to make sense of it. Andamio CLI gives developers instant access to helpful queries that allow users to gain insights about the network. In this phase of Andamio CLI development, we will focus on making it easy for anyone to make useful queries to the Andamio network.

**Queries Example: Viewing Learner Status**

Just like Cardano CLI can be used to get data about addresses and utxos on Cardano, Andamio CLI can be used to get data about courses and contributors on the Andamio network.

[Here is a brief video demo of some initial query features]().

### Deployment Phase
It's one thing to be able to query the data on Andamio. It's even better to have the ability to deploy your own APIs that serve up data in ways that are helpful to you and your team. Andamio CLI will provide tools for bootstrapping custom Andamio APIs. The full scope of this phase of Andamio CLI development will extend beyond our Catalyst Fund 11 proposal, but we have already created some proofs-of-concept to drive upcoming development work.

In the Deployment Phase we will also investigate how Cardano Partner chains work. This is the focus of our Fund 12 proposal: [Andamio Purpose Sidechain / Layer 2 Concept](https://cardano.ideascale.com/c/idea/122585).

**Live Example: Coming to Live Coding**

We will investigate initial examples of Deployment Phase outcomes at Cardano Go Live Coding on Monday 2024-06-24.

### Implications for Cardano Go Project-Based Learning Course

The phases of Andamio CLI also serve another purpose: by building features related to each, we are creating technical examples that will be featured in the upcoming [Cardano Go Project-Based Learning Course](https://www.andamio.io/course/gpbl2024).

We will explore some of these connections in our next blog post!

---

## Get Involved

### Follow Open-Source Cardano Go Libraries + Docs + Andamio CLI:

1. Notion page - [public dashboard](https://andamio.notion.site/Open-Source-Cardano-Go-Libraries-Docs-Andamio-CLI-5266383e226246edb37d4c859d2a0a31?pvs=4)
2. [Andamio CLI on GitHub](https://github.com/Andamio-Platform/andamio-cli)

### Register for Weekly Live Coding Sessions:
- [Mondays from 1300-1400 UTC](https://us06web.zoom.us/meeting/register/tZwtcemrqTwoG9fYL2pYvrCwQG9u2tJNmqa6#/registration)